the story of Icarus is fascinating to
look at from a cultural perspective it's
been around for thousands of years we
all know it Daedalus and Icarus go to a
desert island
Daedalus the dad makes wings out of
feathers give them to a son put some on
with wax says to his son obey your
father we're flying out of here don't
fly too high because he'd fly too high
the wax will melt and you'll die and we
all know what happened
Icarus got uppity he had you bris he
disobeyed his father and he died except
that's not what the myth said in 1700 or
1500 or 1200 they changed it used to say
but more important don't fly too low
because if you fly too low the water and
the mist will weigh down your wings and
you will surely perish it took that part
out they took it out because the people
in power the industrialists want us to
fly lower because it's easier to ignore
us it's easier to keep us in line it's
easier to get a factory job that way
people who have the hubris to dream of
something bigger change the status quo
and the people who are in charge aren't
in favor of that and I'm not a
conspiracy theorist at all but I do know
where I where public school came from
and public school was invented by
factory owners who didn't have enough
compliant factory workers and it worked
great for a hundred years we had this
wonderful system do what you're told go
to the placement office you'll get a job
for 50 years you will like the job but
you'll be able to go home and watch TV
buy enough stuff the only just storage
unit and then you'll die and the deal
was straightforward and kept on both
sides and during our lifetime in the
last 20 years deal's off and the mistake
the problem is that people are still
seduced into thinking that what they're
supposed to do is fit in more and social
media has made it worse because there's
this whole pack mentality of how do I
fit in more with small bursts of here's
one quick tip for a flat stomach in
three different ways to get rich and
you can learn to flip houses today and
be a millionaire tomorrow
none of which work right but the
combination rule is to mean that people
are starting to feel broken and bitter
because the promise isn't being kept so
you have a choice and the choice is one
of three things either you're the
replaceable cog in the pyramid who's
going to get paid as little as possible
or you're the founder of the owner the
person who runs the thing but for most
of us the best choice is to be the
linchpin one we can't live without the
person who figures out what to do next
and I'm betting that of the 1,400 people
who work for you you had 50 linchpins
mandatory education makes no sense
nobody ever learned anything against
their will sooner or later it becomes
voluntary you need enrollment not
enrollment from the legal sense of
you're not truant
but enrollment in the sense that you are
leaning into it and want to learn it so
we want to teach someone to be a
baseball fan here's what we don't do we
don't say here's the baseball textbook
there'll be a test tomorrow and if you
do well you can take another test and if
you do ten tests in a row really well
we'll take you to a game that's not what
happens but yet kids memorize all these
statistics and they know all this stuff
because they wanted to know it so we
must begin by gaining enrollment and
there are a couple ways to do it
one way is to promise a quick win right
just read these six paragraphs and you
will lose 30 pounds and it's easy to get
the masses just to pay a dollar for that
but doesn't work to data the other way
to do it is to say to people being a
Navy SEAL where being physically fit or
being smart at business these are
endeavors they take effort if you're
ready to pay the price to get the
benefit there are people who will teach
you so it's the opposite of the question
will this be on the test if you're
asking will this be on the tab
from an online course or from a school
what you're basically saying to the
teacher is without a certificate I don't
need to be here I'm only here to prove
that I was here and in this post
educational institution world that were
entering certificates are worth less
than less what's actually where
something is did you sign up to learn
something where you opened yourself up
the possible failure opened yourself up
to the stress of becoming someone else
in a way that made you better and not
everyone wants to do that but my mission
is to work with the people who do so
that I can help them open those doors
your job is to make people feel welcome
and to connect with them so there's a
space between you and them and the
question is will you risk entering the
space putting yourself forward even
though in that moment the person waits
that you totally misjudged what was
happening here I don't want your smile
and I don't want your connection but
when you do it well not only is it
addictive it creates enormous amounts of
possibility and so that leap into the
void doesn't mean mortgage your house
and put everything you've got on one
business budget it means are you hooked
on that feeling of this might not work
and this might work we'll find out the
system wants you to feel mostly
powerless because they have power you
don't and it also wants you to feel
inadequate until you buy more stuff
because that's what marketers sell us is
the idea that until you buy this you're
incomplete it turns out those two things
don't make people happy what makes us
happy is agency knowing that we have
some sort of control over what's going
to happen
and unfortunately the economic structure
that we live in isn't going to be easy
for most people to fix not in the short
run but what we can fix
right now is how we respond or react to
what's happening in front of us now my
friend Kat Hope says you can't be
curious and angry at the same time so
you got a choice now you got a choice in
the traffic jam you get a choice when
you're dealing with an angry clerk you
get a choice with a bureaucrat am I
gonna be curious about how this person
got to this moment
am I gonna be angry at this situation
and what we find is that as a parent as
a clerk at 7-eleven as a third-grade
teacher we could dig deep into emotional
labor not the physical labor of digging
latrine but the emotional labor of
sitting when we feel like running of
whispering when we feel like yelling we
could dig deep and say in this moment
I'm gonna choose to be the best version
of myself and seek possibility
and it turns out that that's a life that
you can build an entire life merely
doing that and then what happens more
often than not is the world responds by
inviting you to play on a bigger stage
so this is not about hustling I'm not a
fan of slang I'm a fan of a generous
hustle and the generous hustle says how
can I do things in the world to leave a
better trail and to help other people
not how do I do things so I get my fair
share because the world doesn't respond
well to hustlers they don't like being
hustled but the world responds really
well the people who take responsibility
and give away credit and that boundary
there is totally different and if you
work in an organization that can't
respect that there's another one that
wants